* File System Management
  Hierarchical structure that is composed of various components. At the top of this structure is the inode table, which stores information associated with each file and directory on a Linux system and contain metadata about the file or directory, such as permissions, size, type, owner, etc.
  Files are stored either as regular files or directories. The third type of file is symbolic link which is a reference to the other two.

** Disks and Drives
   `fdisk` allows us to create, delete, and manage partitions on a drive, as well as display information about the partition table.
   Each partition can be formatted with a specific file system (ext4, NTFS, FAT32,...).
   The most common partitioning tools on Linux are `fdisk`, `gpart`, and `GParted`.
   `fdisk -l` gives information about the disks

** Mounting
   The process of assigning a logical partition (drive) to a specific directory on Linux. It involves attaching a drive to a specific directory, making it accessible to the file system hierarchy.
   The `mount` tool is used for this.
*** Mounted File Systems at Boot
    The `/etc/fstab` file is used to define the default file systems that are mounted at boot time.
*** List Mounted Drives
    Just `mount` with no arguments.
*** Mount a USB drive
    `sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt/usb` mounts a USB drive with the device name `/dev/sdb1` to the directory `/mnt/usb`
*** Unmount
    `sudo umount /mnt/usb` 
    We can't unmount a file system that is in use by a running process. To check for that we can use `lsof` to list the open files on the file system.



